Optimized Detector Angular Configuration Increases the Sensitivity of X-ray Fluorescence Computed Tomography (XFCT),

# In this work, we demonstrated that an optimized detector angular configuration based on the anisotropic energy distribution of background scattered X-rays improves X-ray fluorescence computed tomography (XFCT) detection sensitivity. We built an XFCT imaging system composed of a bench-top fluoroscopy X-ray source, a CdTe X-ray detector, and a phantom motion stage. We imaged a 6.4-cm-diameter phantom containing different concentrations of gold solution and investigated the effect of detector angular configuration on XFCT image quality. Based on our previous theoretical study, three detector angles were considered. The X-ray fluorescence detector was first placed at 145 ° (approximating back-scatter) to minimize scatter X-rays. XFCT image quality was compared to images acquired with the detector at 60 ° (forward-scatter) and 90 ° (side-scatter). The datasets for the three different detector positions were also combined to approximate an isotropically arranged detector. The sensitivity was optimized with detector in the 145 ° back-scatter configuration counting the 78-keV gold Kβ1 X-rays. The improvement arose from the reduced energy of scattered X-ray at the 145 ° position and the large energy separation from gold K β1 X-rays. The lowest detected concentration in this configuration was 2.5 mgAu/mL (or 0.25% Au with SNR = 4.3). This concentration could not be detected with the 60 °, 90 °, or isotropic configurations (SNRs = 1.3, 0, 2.3, respectively). XFCT imaging dose of 14 mGy was in the range of typical clinical X-ray CT imaging doses. To our knowledge, the sensitivity achieved in this experiment is the highest in any XFCT experiment using an ordinary bench-top X-ray source in a phantom larger than a mouse ( > 3 cm).

{X-ray detection;computerised tomography;diagnostic radiography;fluorescence;image motion analysis;image reconstruction;medical image processing;phantoms;X-ray detector;X-ray fluorescence computed tomography sensitivity;XFCT image quality;XFCT imaging system;anisotropic energy distribution;bench-top fluoroscopy X-ray source;clinical X-ray CT imaging doses;energy separation;mouse;optimized detector angular configuration;ordinary bench-top X-ray source;phantom motion stage;Detectors;Gold;Image reconstruction;Phantoms;Sensitivity;X-ray imaging;Computed tomograhpy;image reconstruction;molecular imaging;radiation imaging},



