Stratification of Patients With Liver Fibrosis Using Dual-Energy CT,

# Assessing the severity of liver fibrosis has direct clinical implications for patient diagnosis and treatment. Liver biopsy, typically considered the gold standard, has limited clinical utility due to its invasiveness. Therefore, several imaging-based techniques for staging liver fibrosis have emerged, such as magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) and ultrasound elastography (USE), but they face challenges that include limited availability, high cost, poor patient compliance, low repeatability, and inaccuracy. Computed tomography (CT) can address many of these limitations, but is still hampered by inaccuracy in the presence of confounding factors, such as liver fat. Dual-energy CT (DECT), with its ability to discriminate between different tissue types, may offer a viable alternative to these methods. By combining the "multi-material decomposition" (MMD) algorithm with a biologically driven hypothesis we developed a method for assessing liver fibrosis from DECT images. On a twelve-patient cohort the method produced quantitative maps showing the spatial distribution of liver fibrosis, as well as a fibrosis score for each patient with statistically significant correlation with the severity of fibrosis across a wide range of disease severities. A preliminary comparison of the proposed algorithm against MRE showed good agreement between the two methods. Finally, the application of the algorithm to longitudinal DECT scans of the cohort produced highly repeatable results. We conclude that our algorithm can successfully stratify patients with liver fibrosis and can serve to supplement and augment current clinical practice and the role of DECT imaging in staging liver fibrosis.

{biological tissues;computerised tomography;diseases;image reconstruction;liver;medical image processing;statistical analysis;DECT images;biologically driven hypothesis;clinical utility;direct clinical implications;disease severities;dual-energy computed tomography scans;imaging-based techniques;liver fibrosis;magnetic resonance elastography;multimaterial decomposition algorithm;patient compliance;patient diagnosis;patient treatment;quantitative maps;spatial distribution;statistically significant correlation;stratification;tissue types;ultrasound elastography;Attenuation;Blood;Computed tomography;Diseases;Liver;Materials;Computed tomography (CT);dual-energy CT;liver fibrosis;material decomposition;medical imaging},



