Curvelet Based Contrast Enhancement in Fluoroscopic Sequences,

# Image guided interventions have seen growing interest in recent years. The use of X-rays for the procedure impels limiting the dose over time. Image sequences obtained thereby exhibit high levels of noise and very low contrasts. Hence, the development of efficient methods to enable optimal visualization of these sequences is crucial. We propose an original denoising method based on the curvelet transform. First, we apply a recursive temporal filter to the curvelet coefficients. As some residual noise remains, a spatial filtering is performed in the second step, which uses a magnitude-based classification and a contextual comparison of curvelet coefficients. This procedure allows to denoise the sequence while preserving low-contrasted structures, but does not improve their contrast. Finally, a third step is carried out to enhance the features of interest. For this, we propose a line enhancement technique in the curvelet domain. Indeed, thin structures are sparsely represented in that domain, allowing a fast and efficient detection. Quantitative and qualitative evaluations performed on synthetic and real low-dose sequences demonstrate that the proposed method enables a 50% dose reduction.

{computerised tomography;curvelet transforms;data visualisation;diagnostic radiography;image classification;image denoising;image enhancement;image sequences;medical image processing;recursive filters;spatial filters;X-ray imaging;contextual comparison;curvelet based contrast enhancement;curvelet coefficients;curvelet domain;curvelet transform;dose reduction;features of interest;fluoroscopic sequences;image guided interventions;image sequences;line enhancement technique;low-contrasted structures;magnitude-based classification;optimal visualization;original denoising method;qualitative evaluations;quantitative evaluations;real low-dose sequences;recursive temporal filter;residual noise;spatial filtering;synthetic low-dose sequences;Image edge detection;Noise;Noise reduction;Shape;Standards;Transforms;X-rays;Image enhancement/restoration;X-ray imaging and computed tomography},



