3-D Stent Detection in Intravascular OCT Using a Bayesian Network and Graph Search,

# Worldwide, many hundreds of thousands of stents are implanted each year to revascularize occlusions in coronary arteries. Intravascular optical coherence tomography is an important emerging imaging technique, which has the resolution and contrast necessary to quantitatively analyze stent deployment and tissue coverage following stent implantation. Automation is needed, as current, it takes up to 16 h to manually analyze hundreds of images and thousands of stent struts from a single pullback. For automated strut detection, we used image formation physics and machine learning via a Bayesian network, and 3-D knowledge of stent structure via graph search. Graph search was done on en face projections using minimum spanning tree algorithms. Depths of all struts in a pullback were simultaneously determined using graph cut. To assess the method, we employed the largest validation data set used so far, involving more than 8000 clinical images from 103 pullbacks from 72 patients. Automated strut detection achieved a 0.91±0.04 recall, and 0.84±0.08 precision. Performance was robust in images of varying quality. This method can improve the workflow for analysis of stent clinical trial data, and can potentially be used in the clinic to facilitate real-time stent analysis and visualization, aiding stent implantation.

{Bayes methods;blood vessels;cardiovascular system;graph theory;learning (artificial intelligence);medical image processing;object detection;optical tomography;stents;3-D stent detection;Bayesian network;automated strut detection;automation;coronary arteries;en face projections;graph cut;graph search;image formation physics;intravascular OCT;intravascular optical coherence tomography;machine learning;minimum spanning tree algorithms;pullback;real-time stent analysis;real-time stent visualization;stent clinical trial data;stent deployment;stent implantation;stent structure;stent struts;time 16 h;tissue coverage;workflow;Bayes methods;Face;Image edge detection;Imaging;Maximum likelihood estimation;Probabilistic logic;Wires;Bayesian methods;graph search;optical coherence tomography;stent},



