Spectral CT Using Multiple Balanced K-Edge Filters,

# Our goal is to validate a spectral computed tomography (CT) system design that uses a conventional X-ray source with multiple balanced K-edge filters. By performing a simultaneously synthetic reconstruction in multiple energy bins, we obtained a good agreement between measurements and model expectations for a reasonably complex phantom. We performed simulation and data acquisition on a phantom containing multiple rods of different materials using a NeuroLogica CT scanner. Five balanced K-edge filters including Molybdenum, Cerium, Dysprosium, Erbium, and Tungsten were used separately proximal to the X-ray tube. For each sinogram bin, measured filtered vector can be defined as a product of a transmission matrix, which is determined by the filters and is independent of the imaging object, and energy-binned intensity vector. The energy-binned sinograms were then obtained by inverting the transmission matrix followed by a multiplication of the filter measurement vector. For each energy bin defined by two consecutive K-edges, a synthesized energy-binned attenuation image was obtained using filtered back-projection reconstruction. The reconstructed attenuation coefficients for each rod obtained from the experiment was in good agreement with the corresponding simulated results. Furthermore, the reconstructed attenuation coefficients for a given energy bin, agreed with National Institute of Standards and Technology reference values when beam hardening within the energy bin is small. The proposed cost-effective system design using multiple balanced K-edge filters can be used to perform spectral CT imaging at clinically relevant flux rates using conventional detectors and integrating electronics.

{X-ray tubes;cerium;computerised tomography;dysprosium;erbium;image filtering;image reconstruction;medical image processing;molybdenum;phantoms;tungsten;Ce;Dy;Er;Mo;NeuroLogica CT scanner;W;X-ray source;X-ray tube;back-projection reconstruction;data acquisition;energy-binned attenuation image;energy-binned intensity vector;energy-binned sinograms;multiple balanced K-edge filters;multiple energy bins;phantom;reconstructed attenuation coefficient;spectral CT system;spectral computed tomography system;synthetic reconstruction;transmission matrix;Computed tomography;Detectors;Energy measurement;Image reconstruction;Matched filters;Materials;Phantoms;K-edge filters;rainbow-CT;ross spectrometer;spectral CT;transmission matrix},



