Robust Low-Dose CT Perfusion Deconvolution via Tensor Total-Variation Regularization,

# Acute brain diseases such as acute strokes and transit ischemic attacks are the leading causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide, responsible for 9% of total death every year. “Time is brain” is a widely accepted concept in acute cerebrovascular disease treatment. Efficient and accurate computational framework for hemodynamic parameters estimation can save critical time for thrombolytic therapy. Meanwhile the high level of accumulated radiation dosage due to continuous image acquisition in CT perfusion (CTP) raised concerns on patient safety and public health. However, low-radiation leads to increased noise and artifacts which require more sophisticated and time-consuming algorithms for robust estimation. In this paper, we focus on developing a robust and efficient framework to accurately estimate the perfusion parameters at low radiation dosage. Specifically, we present a tensor total-variation (TTV) technique which fuses the spatial correlation of the vascular structure and the temporal continuation of the blood signal flow. An efficient algorithm is proposed to find the solution with fast convergence and reduced computational complexity. Extensive evaluations are carried out in terms of sensitivity to noise levels, estimation accuracy, contrast preservation, and performed on digital perfusion phantom estimation, as well as in vivo clinical subjects. Our framework reduces the necessary radiation dose to only 8% of the original level and outperforms the state-of-art algorithms with peak signal-to-noise ratio improved by 32%. It reduces the oscillation in the residue functions, corrects over-estimation of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and under-estimation of mean transit time (MTT), and maintains the distinction between the deficit and normal regions.

{brain;computational complexity;computerised tomography;deconvolution;diseases;haemodynamics;medical image processing;parameter estimation;phantoms;CBF;CTP;MTT;Time is brain;accumulated radiation dosage;acute brain diseases;acute cerebrovascular disease treatment;acute strokes;artifacts;blood signal flow;cerebral blood flow;computational complexity;computational framework;continuous image acquisition;contrast preservation;deficit regions;digital perfusion phantom estimation;estimation accuracy;fast convergence;hemodynamic parameter estimation;low-dose CT perfusion deconvolution;mean transit time;noise levels;normal regions;original level;patient safety;peak signal-to-noise ratio;perfusion parameters;public health;radiation dose;residue function;spatial correlation;temporal continuation;tensor total-variation regularization;tensor total-variation technique;thrombolytic therapy;transit ischemic attacks;vascular structure;Computed tomography;Deconvolution;Estimation;Image reconstruction;Noise;Phantoms;Tensile stress;Computed tomography perfusion;deconvolution;low-dose;radiation dose safety;regularization;tensor total variation},



