FPGA-Based Voltage and Current Dual Drive System for High Frame Rate Electrical Impedance Tomography,

# Electrical impedance tomography (EIT) is used to image the electrical property distribution of a tissue under test. An EIT system comprises complex hardware and software modules, which are typically designed for a specific application. Upgrading these modules is a time-consuming process, and requires rigorous testing to ensure proper functioning of new modules with the existing ones. To this end, we developed a modular and reconfigurable data acquisition (DAQ) system using National Instruments' (NI) hardware and software modules, which offer inherent compatibility over generations of hardware and software revisions. The system can be configured to use up to 32-channels. This EIT system can be used to interchangeably apply current or voltage signal, and measure the tissue response in a semi-parallel fashion. A novel signal averaging algorithm, and 512-point fast Fourier transform (FFT) computation block was implemented on the FPGA. FFT output bins were classified as signal or noise. Signal bins constitute a tissue's response to a pure or mixed tone signal. Signal bins' data can be used for traditional applications, as well as synchronous frequency-difference imaging. Noise bins were used to compute noise power on the FPGA. Noise power represents a metric of signal quality, and can be used to ensure proper tissue-electrode contact. Allocation of these computationally expensive tasks to the FPGA reduced the required bandwidth between PC, and the FPGA for high frame rate EIT. In 16-channel configuration, with a signal-averaging factor of 8, the DAQ frame rate at 100 kHz exceeded 110 frames s -1, and signal-to-noise ratio exceeded 90 dB across the spectrum. Reciprocity error was found to be for frequencies up to 1 MHz. Static imaging experiments were performed on a high-conductivity inclusion placed in a saline filled tank; the inclusion was clearly localized in the reconstructions obtained for both absolute current and voltage mode data.

{bioelectric phenomena;biological tissues;biomedical electrodes;data acquisition;electric impedance imaging;electrical conductivity;fast Fourier transforms;field programmable gate arrays;image reconstruction;medical image processing;noise;FPGA-based current dual drive system;FPGA-based voltage dual drive system;fast Fourier transform computation block;high frame rate electrical impedance tomography;high-conductivity inclusion;image reconstructions;modular data acquisition system;reconfigurable data acquisition system;saline filled tank;signal-to-noise ratio;static imaging experiments;synchronous frequency-difference imaging;tissue electrical property distribution imaging;tissue-electrode contact;Electrodes;Field programmable gate arrays;Hardware;Nickel;Software;Tomography;Voltage measurement;Electrical impedance tomography (EIT);fast Fourier transform (FFT);field programmable gate array (FPGA);signal averaging},



