Noise Suppression for Dual-Energy CT Through Entropy Minimization,

# In dual energy CT (DECT), noise amplification during signal decomposition significantly limits the utility of basis material images. Since clinically relevant objects typically contain a limited number of different materials, we propose an Image-domain Decomposition method through Entropy Minimization (IDEM) for noise suppression in DECT. Pixels of decomposed images are first linearly transformed into 2D clusters of data points, which are highly asymmetric due to strong signal correlation. An optimal axis is identified in the 2D space via numerical search such that the projection of data clusters onto the axis has minimum entropy. Noise suppression is performed on each image pixel by estimating the center-of-mass value of each data cluster along the direction perpendicular to the projection axis. The IDEM method is distinct from other noise suppression techniques in that it does not suppress pixel noise by reducing spatial variation between neighboring pixels. As supported by studies on Catphan©600 and anthropomorphic head phantoms, this feature endows our algorithm with a unique capability of reducing noise standard deviation on DECT decomposed images by approximately one order of magnitude while preserving spatial resolution and image noise power spectra (NPS). Compared with a filtering method and recently developed iterative method at the same level of noise suppression, the IDEM algorithm obtains high-resolution images with less artifacts. It also maintains accuracy of electron density measurements with less than 2% bias error. The IDEM method effectively suppresses noise of DECT for quantitative use, with appealing features on preservation of image spatial resolution and NPS.

{computerised tomography;entropy;image denoising;medical image processing;minimisation;phantoms;Catphan©600;DECT;IDEM;Image-domain Decomposition method through Entropy Minimization;anthropomorphic head phantoms;data clusters;dual-energy CT;electron density measurements;iterative method;noise amplification;noise suppression;numerical search;signal decomposition;Attenuation;Computed tomography;Covariance matrices;Entropy;Minimization;Noise;Spatial resolution;Dual-energy CT;entropy minimization;noise suppression},



