Simultaneous Registration of Location and Orientation in Intravascular Ultrasound Pullbacks Pairs Via 3D Graph-Based Optimization,

# A novel method is reported for simultaneous registration of location (axial direction) and orientation (circumferential direction) of two intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) pullbacks of the same vessel taken at different times. Monitoring plaque progression or regression (e.g., during lipid treatment) is of high clinical relevance. Our method uses a 3D graph optimization approach, in which the cost function jointly reflects similarity of plaque morphology and plaque/perivascular image appearance. Graph arcs incorporate prior information about temporal correspondence of the two IVUS sequences and limited angular twisting between consecutive IVUS images. Additionally, our approach automatically identifies starting and ending frame pairs in the two IVUS pullbacks. Validation of our method was performed in 29 pairs of IVUS baseline/follow-up pullback sequences consisting of 8 622 IVUS image frames in total. In comparison to manual registration by three experts, the average location and orientation registration errors ranged from 0.72 mm to 0.79 mm and from 7.3 째 to 9.3 째, respectively, all close to the inter-observer variability with no difference being statistically significant (p = NS). Rotation angles determined by our automated approach and expert observers showed high correlation ( r2 of 0.97 to 0.98) and agreed closely (mutual bias between the automated method and expert observers ranged from -1.57째 to 0.15 째). Compared with state-of-the-art approaches, the new method offers lower errors in both location and orientation registration. Our method offers highly automated and accurate IVUS pullback registration and can be employed in IVUS-based studies of coronary disease progression, enabling more focal studies of coronary plaque development and transition of vulnerability.

{biomedical ultrasonics;blood vessels;diseases;image registration;image sequences;medical image processing;optimisation;regression analysis;reviews;ultrasonic imaging;3D graph optimization approach;3D graph-based optimization;IVUS baseline-follow-up pullback sequences;IVUS image frames;IVUS sequences;coronary disease progression;coronary plaque development;graph arcs;highly accurate IVUS pullback registration;highly automated IVUS pullback registration;intravascular ultrasound pullback pairs;limited angular twisting;monitoring plaque progression;monitoring plaque regression;orientation registration errors;plaque morphology;plaque-perivascular image appearance;rotation angles;simultaneous registration;state-of-the-art approaches;statistically significance;vulnerability transition;Cost function;Diseases;Image segmentation;Image sequences;Morphology;Three-dimensional displays;Ultrasonic imaging;Atherosclerosis;graph-based method;image registration;intravascular ultrasound;natural history},



