Design of a Parallel Transmit Head Coil at 7T With Magnetic Wall Distributed Filters,

# Ultra-high field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanners ( ≥ 7T) require radio-frequency (RF) coils to operate in the range of the electromagnetic spectrum where the effective wavelength in the tissue approaches the patient dimensions. Multi-channel transmit arrays, driven in parallel, have been developed to increase the transmit field (B1+) uniformity in this wavelength regime. However, the closely packed array elements interact through mutual coupling. This paper expands on the ability of a distributed planar filter (the “magnetic wall”) to decouple individual elements in an entire array. A transmit RF coil suitable for neuroimaging at 7T was constructed. The transmit coil, composed of 10 individual surface coil elements, was decoupled with magnetic walls. A separate receive coil array was used for signal reception. The hardware and imaging performance of the transmit coil was validated with electromagnetic simulation, bench-top measurements, and in vivo MRI experiments. Analysis and measurements confirmed that the magnetic wall decoupling method provides high isolation between transmit channels, while minimally affecting the B1+ field profiles. Electromagnetic simulations confirmed that the decoupling method did not correlate to local specific absorption rate (SAR) “hot spots” or increase local-to-global SAR fractions in comparison to previously reported 7T multi-channel transmit arrays employing different decoupling methods.

{biological tissues;biomedical MRI;coils;medical image processing;neurophysiology;electromagnetic spectrum;local specific absorption rate;local-to-global SAR fractions;magnetic flux density 7 T;magnetic wall decoupling method;magnetic wall distributed filters;multichannel transmit arrays;neuroimaging;parallel transmit head coil;radiofrequency coils;surface coil elements;tissue approaches;ultrahigh field magnetic resonance imaging scanners;Capacitors;Coils;Couplings;Inductors;Magnetic resonance imaging;Magnetic separation;Radio frequency;Decoupling;RF coil;RF planar filter;distributed filter;magnetic resonance imaging (MRI);magnetic wall;mutual coupling;radio-frequency (RF) arrays;transmit coil},



