Covert Photo Classification by Fusing Image Features and Visual Attributes,

# In this paper, we study a novel problem of classifying covert photos, whose acquisition processes are intentionally concealed from the subjects being photographed. Covert photos are often privacy invasive and, if distributed over Internet, can cause serious consequences. Automatic identification of such photos, therefore, serves as an important initial step toward further privacy protection operations. The problem is, however, very challenging due to the large semantic similarity between covert and noncovert photos, the enormous diversity in the photographing process and environment of cover photos, and the difficulty to collect an effective data set for the study. Attacking these challenges, we make three consecutive contributions. First, we collect a large data set containing 2500 covert photos, each of them is verified rigorously and carefully. Second, we conduct a user study on how humans distinguish covert photos from noncovert ones. The user study not only provides an important evaluation baseline, but also suggests fusing heterogeneous information for an automatic solution. Our third contribution is a covert photo classification algorithm that fuses various image features and visual attributes in the multiple kernel learning framework. We evaluate the proposed approach on the collected data set in comparison with other modern image classifiers. The results show that our approach achieves an average classification rate (1-EER) of 0.8940, which significantly outperforms other competitors as well as human's performance.

{data privacy;feature extraction;image classification;image fusion;learning (artificial intelligence);Internet;automatic identification;average classification rate;classifying covert photos;covert photo classification;covert photo classification algorithm;image classifiers;image feature fusion;image features;multiple kernel learning framework;photographing environment;photographing process;privacy invasive;privacy protection operations;visual attributes;Cameras;Internet;Kernel;Photography;Privacy;Semantics;Visualization;Privacy protection;covert photography;image classification;multiple kernel learning;visual attribute},



