Adaptive Image Denoising by Targeted Databases,

# We propose a data-dependent denoising procedure to restore noisy images. Different from existing denoising algorithms which search for patches from either the noisy image or a generic database, the new algorithm finds patches from a database that contains relevant patches. We formulate the denoising problem as an optimal filter design problem and make two contributions. First, we determine the basis function of the denoising filter by solving a group sparsity minimization problem. The optimization formulation generalizes existing denoising algorithms and offers systematic analysis of the performance. Improvement methods are proposed to enhance the patch search process. Second, we determine the spectral coefficients of the denoising filter by considering a localized Bayesian prior. The localized prior leverages the similarity of the targeted database, alleviates the intensive Bayesian computation, and links the new method to the classical linear minimum mean squared error estimation. We demonstrate applications of the proposed method in a variety of scenarios, including text images, multiview images, and face images. Experimental results show the superiority of the new algorithm over existing methods.

{Bayes methods;filtering theory;image denoising;image enhancement;image restoration;least mean squares methods;minimisation;search problems;adaptive image denoising algorithm;classical linear minimum mean squared error estimation;data-dependent denoising procedure;face imaging;group sparsity minimization problem;image enhancement;intensive Bayesian computation;localized Bayesian prior;multiview imaging;noisy image restoration;optimal filter design problem;optimization formulation;patch search process;spectral coefficient;targeted database;text imaging;Databases;Image denoising;Noise measurement;Noise reduction;Optimization;Principal component analysis;Tensile stress;BM3D;Bayesian estimation;Patch-based filtering;external database;group sparsity;image denoising;non-local means;optimal filter},



