An Underwater Color Image Quality Evaluation Metric,

# Quality evaluation of underwater images is a key goal of underwater video image retrieval and intelligent processing. To date, no metric has been proposed for underwater color image quality evaluation (UCIQE). The special absorption and scattering characteristics of the water medium do not allow direct application of natural color image quality metrics especially to different underwater environments. In this paper, subjective testing for underwater image quality has been organized. The statistical distribution of the underwater image pixels in the CIELab color space related to subjective evaluation indicates the sharpness and colorful factors correlate well with subjective image quality perception. Based on these, a new UCIQE metric, which is a linear combination of chroma, saturation, and contrast, is proposed to quantify the non-uniform color cast, blurring, and low-contrast that characterize underwater engineering and monitoring images. Experiments are conducted to illustrate the performance of the proposed UCIQE metric and its capability to measure the underwater image enhancement results. They show that the proposed metric has comparable performance to the leading natural color image quality metrics and the underwater grayscale image quality metrics available in the literature, and can predict with higher accuracy the relative amount of degradation with similar image content in underwater environments. Importantly, UCIQE is a simple and fast solution for real-time underwater video processing. The effectiveness of the presented measure is also demonstrated by subjective evaluation. The results show better correlation between the UCIQE and the subjective mean opinion score.

{image colour analysis;image enhancement;statistical distributions;video retrieval;CIELab color space;UCIQE;intelligent processing;low-contrast;monitoring images;nonuniform color blurring;nonuniform color cast;real-time underwater video processing;scattering characteristics;special absorption;statistical distribution;subjective image quality perception;subjective testing;underwater color image quality evaluation metric;underwater engineering;underwater environments;underwater grayscale image quality metrics;underwater image enhancement;underwater image pixels;underwater video image retrieval;Image color analysis;Image enhancement;Image quality;Monitoring;Real-time systems;CIELab;Colour image;no reference (NR) image quality evaluation;underwater image},



