Learning-Based Object Identification and Segmentation Using Dual-Energy CT Images for Security,

# In recent years, baggage screening at airports has included the use of dual-energy X-ray computed tomography (DECT), an advanced technology for nondestructive evaluation. The main challenge remains to reliably find and identify threat objects in the bag from DECT data. This task is particularly hard due to the wide variety of objects, the high clutter, and the presence of metal, which causes streaks and shading in the scanner images. Image noise and artifacts are generally much more severe than in medical CT and can lead to splitting of objects and inaccurate object labeling. The conventional approach performs object segmentation and material identification in two decoupled processes. Dual-energy information is typically not used for the segmentation, and object localization is not explicitly used to stabilize the material parameter estimates. We propose a novel learning-based framework for joint segmentation and identification of objects directly from volumetric DECT images, which is robust to streaks, noise and variability due to clutter. We focus on segmenting and identifying a small set of objects of interest with characteristics that are learned from training images, and consider everything else as background. We include data weighting to mitigate metal artifacts and incorporate an object boundary field to reduce object splitting. The overall formulation is posed as a multilabel discrete optimization problem and solved using an efficient graph-cut algorithm. We test the method on real data and show its potential for producing accurate labels of the objects of interest without splits in the presence of metal and clutter.

{computerised tomography;graph theory;image segmentation;learning (artificial intelligence);national security;object recognition;optimisation;parameter estimation;baggage screening;data weighting;decoupled processes;dual-energy CT images;dual-energy X-ray computed tomography;dual-energy information;graph-cut algorithm;image artifacts;image noise;learning-based object identification;learning-based object segmentation;material identification;material parameter estimate stability;medical CT;metal artifact mitigation;multilabel discrete optimization problem;nondestructive evaluation;object boundary field;object labeling;object localization;object splitting reduction;scanner images;threat object identification;training images;volumetric DECT images;Attenuation;Computed tomography;Image segmentation;Labeling;Metals;Noise;X-ray imaging;Baggage screening;Dual-energy X-ray computed tomography;Homeland security;Machine learning;Object labeling;Threat detection;baggage screening;homeland security;machine learning;object labeling;threat detection},



