Markov Network-Based Unified Classifier for Face Recognition,

# In this paper, we propose a novel unifying framework using a Markov network to learn the relationships among multiple classifiers. In face recognition, we assume that we have several complementary classifiers available, and assign observation nodes to the features of a query image and hidden nodes to those of gallery images. Under the Markov assumption, we connect each hidden node to its corresponding observation node and the hidden nodes of neighboring classifiers. For each observation-hidden node pair, we collect the set of gallery candidates most similar to the observation instance, and capture the relationship between the hidden nodes in terms of a similarity matrix among the retrieved gallery images. Posterior probabilities in the hidden nodes are computed using the belief propagation algorithm, and we use marginal probability as the new similarity value of the classifier. The novelty of our proposed framework lies in the method that considers classifier dependence using the results of each neighboring classifier. We present the extensive evaluation results for two different protocols, known and unknown image variation tests, using four publicly available databases: 1) the Face Recognition Grand Challenge ver. 2.0; 2) XM2VTS; 3) BANCA; and 4) Multi-PIE. The result shows that our framework consistently yields improved recognition rates in various situations.

{Markov processes;belief networks;face recognition;image classification;inference mechanisms;matrix algebra;probability;BANCA;Face Recognition Grand Challenge ver. 2.0;Markov assumption;Markov network-based unified classifier;XM2VTS;belief propagation algorithm;classifier similarity value;face recognition;gallery images;known image variation test;marginal probability;multi PIE;neighboring classifiers;observation node assignment;observation-hidden node pair;posterior probabilities;query image;similarity matrix;unknown image variation test;Databases;Face;Face recognition;Feature extraction;Markov random fields;Training;Face Recognition;Face recognition;Markov Network;Markov network;Multiple Classifiers;classifier fusion;multiple classifiers},



