Bayesian Inference for Neighborhood Filters With Application in Denoising,

# Range-weighted neighborhood filters are useful and popular for their edge-preserving property and simplicity, but they are originally proposed as intuitive tools. Previous works needed to connect them to other tools or models for indirect property reasoning or parameter estimation. In this paper, we introduce a unified empirical Bayesian framework to do both directly. A neighborhood noise model is proposed to reason and infer the Yaroslavsky, bilateral, and modified non-local means filters by joint maximum a posteriori and maximum likelihood estimation. Then, the essential parameter, range variance, can be estimated via model fitting to the empirical distribution of an observable chi scale mixture variable. An algorithm based on expectation-maximization and quasi-Newton optimization is devised to perform the model fitting efficiently. Finally, we apply this framework to the problem of color-image denoising. A recursive fitting and filtering scheme is proposed to improve the image quality. Extensive experiments are performed for a variety of configurations, including different kernel functions, filter types and support sizes, color channel numbers, and noise types. The results show that the proposed framework can fit noisy images well and the range variance can be estimated successfully and efficiently.

{Bayes methods;Newton method;edge detection;expectation-maximisation algorithm;image colour analysis;image denoising;image filtering;inference mechanisms;parameter estimation;recursive estimation;recursive filters;statistical distributions;chi scale mixture variable;color image denoising;edge preserving property;empirical distribution;expectation-maximization optimization;image quality improvement;maximum a posteriori estimation;maximum likelihood estimation;neighborhood noise model;parameter estimation;quasiNewton optimization;range weighted neighborhood filter;recursive filtering scheme;recursive fitting scheme;unified empirical Bayesian inference framework;Bayes methods;Estimation;Kernel;Noise;Noise measurement;Noise reduction;Parameter estimation;Bilateral filter;denoising;empirical Bayesian method;image model;neighborhood filter;noise model;non-local means;parameter estimation},



