Polar Embedding for Aurora Image Retrieval,

# Exploring the multimedia techniques to assist scientists for their research is an interesting and meaningful topic. In this paper, we focus on the large-scale aurora image retrieval by leveraging the bag-of-visual words (BoVW) framework. To refine the unsuitable representation and improve the retrieval performance, the BoVW model is modified by embedding the polar information. The superiority of the proposed polar embedding method lies in two aspects. On the one hand, the polar meshing scheme is conducted to determine the interest points, which is more suitable for images captured by circular fisheye lens. Especially for the aurora image, the extracted polar scale-invariant feature transform (polar-SIFT) feature can also reflect the geomagnetic longitude and latitude, and thus facilitates the further data analysis. On the other hand, a binary polar deep local binary pattern (polar-DLBP) descriptor is proposed to enhance the discriminative power of visual words. Together with the 64-bit polar-SIFT code obtained via Hamming embedding, the multifeature index is performed to reduce the impact of false positive matches. Extensive experiments are conducted on the large-scale aurora image data set. The experimental result indicates that the proposed method improves the retrieval accuracy significantly with acceptable efficiency and memory cost. In addition, the effectiveness of the polar-SIFT scheme and polar-DLBP integration are separately demonstrated.

{atmospheric techniques;aurora;feature extraction;geophysical image processing;image retrieval;transforms;BoVW model;Hamming embedding;bag-of-visual word;binary polar-DLBP descriptor;circular fisheye lens;data analysis;geomagnetic latitude;geomagnetic longitude;large-scale aurora image retrieval;multifeature index;multimedia technique;polar deep local binary pattern;polar embedding method;polar information;polar meshing scheme;polar scale-invariant feature transform;polar-DLBP integration;polar-SIFT code;polar-SIFT feature;polar-SIFT scheme;Feature extraction;Image retrieval;Indexing;Lenses;Quantization (signal);Visualization;Vocabulary;Aurora image retrieval;Polar embedding;Polar-DLBP;Polar-SIFT;aurora image retrieval;polar-DLBP;polar-SIFT},



