A Source-Channel Coding Approach to Digital Image Protection and Self-Recovery,

# Watermarking algorithms have been widely applied to the field of image forensics recently. One of these very forensic applications is the protection of images against tampering. For this purpose, we need to design a watermarking algorithm fulfilling two purposes in case of image tampering: 1) detecting the tampered area of the received image and 2) recovering the lost information in the tampered zones. State-of-the-art techniques accomplish these tasks using watermarks consisting of check bits and reference bits. Check bits are used for tampering detection, whereas reference bits carry information about the whole image. The problem of recovering the lost reference bits still stands. This paper is aimed at showing that having the tampering location known, image tampering can be modeled and dealt with as an erasure error. Therefore, an appropriate design of channel code can protect the reference bits against tampering. In the present proposed method, the total watermark bit-budget is dedicated to three groups: 1) source encoder output bits; 2) channel code parity bits; and 3) check bits. In watermark embedding phase, the original image is source coded and the output bit stream is protected using appropriate channel encoder. For image recovery, erasure locations detected by check bits help channel erasure decoder to retrieve the original source encoded image. Experimental results show that our proposed scheme significantly outperforms recent techniques in terms of image quality for both watermarked and recovered image. The watermarked image quality gain is achieved through spending less bit-budget on watermark, while image recovery quality is considerably improved as a consequence of consistent performance of designed source and channel codes.

{channel coding;image forensics;image watermarking;object detection;source coding;channel code parity bits;channel codes;channel erasure decoder;check bits;digital image protection;erasure error;erasure location detection;image forensics;image tampering;lost information recovery;reference bits;self-recovery;source codes;source encoder output bits;source-channel coding approach;tampered area detection;total watermark bit-budget;watermark embedding phase;watermarking algorithms;Channel coding;Decoding;Image coding;Image restoration;Receivers;Streaming media;Watermarking;Fragile Watermarking,;Image Watermarking;Image watermarking;Imege Tampering Protection;Prime Fields;RS Channel Codes;RS channel codes;SPIHT;Self-Recovery;fragile watermarking;image tampering protection;prime fields;self-recovery},



