Double Nuclear Norm-Based Matrix Decomposition for Occluded Image Recovery and Background Modeling,

# Robust principal component analysis (RPCA) is a new emerging method for exact recovery of corrupted low-rank matrices. It assumes that the real data matrix has low rank and the error matrix is sparse. This paper presents a method called double nuclear norm-based matrix decomposition (DNMD) for dealing with the image data corrupted by continuous occlusion. The method uses a unified low-rank assumption to characterize the real image data and continuous occlusion. Specifically, we assume all image vectors form a low-rank matrix, and each occlusion-induced error image is a low-rank matrix as well. Compared with RPCA, the low-rank assumption of DNMD is more intuitive for describing occlusion. Moreover, DNMD is solved by alternating direction method of multipliers. Our algorithm involves only one operator: the singular value shrinkage operator. DNMD, as a transductive method, is further extended into inductive DNMD (IDNMD). Both DNMD and IDNMD use nuclear norm for measuring the continuous occlusion-induced error, while many previous methods use L1, L2, or other M-estimators. Extensive experiments on removing occlusion from face images and background modeling from surveillance videos demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.

{error analysis;image restoration;matrix decomposition;principal component analysis;IDNMD;M-estimator;RPCA;background modeling;double nuclear norm-based matrix decomposition;error matrix;face image;image data corruption;image vector;inductive DNMD;low-rank matrix;occluded image recovery;occlusion-induced error image;real data matrix;robust principal component analysis;singular value shrinkage operator;surveillance video;transductive method;unified low-rank assumption;Gaussian distribution;Image reconstruction;Laplace equations;Principal component analysis;Probability distribution;Testing;Training;Nuclear norm;low rank;matrix decomposition;principal component analysis},



