Cross-Camera Knowledge Transfer for Multiview People Counting,

# We present a novel two-pass framework for counting the number of people in an environment, where multiple cameras provide different views of the subjects. By exploiting the complementary information captured by the cameras, we can transfer knowledge between the cameras to address the difficulties of people counting and improve the performance. The contribution of this paper is threefold. First, normalizing the perspective of visual features and estimating the size of a crowd are highly correlated tasks. Hence, we treat them as a joint learning problem. The derived counting model is scalable and it provides more accurate results than existing approaches. Second, we introduce an algorithm that matches groups of pedestrians in images captured by different cameras. The results provide a common domain for knowledge transfer, so we can work with multiple cameras without worrying about their differences. Third, the proposed counting system is comprised of a pair of collaborative regressors. The first one determines the people count based on features extracted from intracamera visual information, whereas the second calculates the residual by considering the conflicts between intercamera predictions. The two regressors are elegantly coupled and provide an accurate people counting system. The results of experiments in various settings show that, overall, our approach outperforms comparable baseline methods. The significant performance improvement demonstrates the effectiveness of our two-pass regression framework.

{feature extraction;image matching;image sensors;learning (artificial intelligence);pedestrians;regression analysis;collaborative regressors;cross-camera knowledge transfer learning;crowd size estimation;feature extraction;group matching;joint learning problem;multiview people counting system;pedestrian number estimation;two-pass regression framework;visual features;Cameras;Equations;Estimation;Feature extraction;Knowledge transfer;Training;Visualization;People counting;correspondence estimation;transfer learning},



