Graph-Cut Based Discrete-Valued Image Reconstruction,

# Efficient graph-cut methods have been used with great success for labeling and denoising problems occurring in computer vision. Unfortunately, the presence of linear image mappings has prevented the use of these techniques in most discrete-amplitude image reconstruction problems. In this paper, we develop a graph-cut based framework for the direct solution of discrete amplitude linear image reconstruction problems cast as regularized energy function minimizations. We first analyze the structure of discrete linear inverse problem cost functions to show that the obstacle to the application of graph-cut methods to their solution is the variable mixing caused by the presence of the linear sensing operator. We then propose to use a surrogate energy functional that overcomes the challenges imposed by the sensing operator yet can be utilized efficiently in existing graph-cut frameworks. We use this surrogate energy functional to devise a monotonic iterative algorithm for the solution of discrete valued inverse problems. We first provide experiments using local convolutional operators and show the robustness of the proposed technique to noise and stability to changes in regularization parameter. Then we focus on nonlocal, tomographic examples where we consider limited-angle data problems. We compare our technique with state-of-the-art discrete and continuous image reconstruction techniques. Experiments show that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art techniques in challenging scenarios involving discrete valued unknowns.

{computer vision;graph theory;image denoising;image reconstruction;inverse problems;iterative methods;minimisation;computer vision;discrete amplitude linear image reconstruction problem;discrete linear inverse problem cost function;graph cut method;image denoising;labeling problem;limited angle data problem;linear image mapping;linear sensing operator;local convolutional operators;monotonic iterative algorithm;regularization parameter;regularized energy function minimization;surrogate energy functional;variable mixing;Approximation methods;Couplings;Image reconstruction;Inverse problems;Minimization;Optimization;Sensors;Graph-cuts;discrete tomography;energy minimization;graph-cuts;linear inverse problems},



