Local Multi-Grouped Binary Descriptor With Ring-Based Pooling Configuration and Optimization,

# Local binary descriptors are attracting increasingly attention due to their great advantages in computational speed, which are able to achieve real-time performance in numerous image/vision applications. Various methods have been proposed to learn data-dependent binary descriptors. However, most existing binary descriptors aim overly at computational simplicity at the expense of significant information loss which causes ambiguity in similarity measure using Hamming distance. In this paper, by considering multiple features might share complementary information, we present a novel local binary descriptor, referred as ring-based multi-grouped descriptor (RMGD), to successfully bridge the performance gap between current binary and floated-point descriptors. Our contributions are twofold. First, we introduce a new pooling configuration based on spatial ring-region sampling, allowing for involving binary tests on the full set of pairwise regions with different shapes, scales, and distances. This leads to a more meaningful description than the existing methods which normally apply a limited set of pooling configurations. Then, an extended Adaboost is proposed for an efficient bit selection by emphasizing high variance and low correlation, achieving a highly compact representation. Second, the RMGD is computed from multiple image properties where binary strings are extracted. We cast multi-grouped features integration as rankSVM or sparse support vector machine learning problem, so that different features can compensate strongly for each other, which is the key to discriminativeness and robustness. The performance of the RMGD was evaluated on a number of publicly available benchmarks, where the RMGD outperforms the state-of-the-art binary descriptors significantly.

{computer vision;learning (artificial intelligence);optimisation;support vector machines;Hamming distance;RMGD;data-dependent binary descriptors;extended Adaboost;local multigrouped binary descriptor;rankSVM;ring-based multi-grouped descriptor;ring-based pooling configuration;sparse support vector machine learning problem;spatial ring-region sampling;Correlation;Feature extraction;Noise;Optimization;Robustness;Shape;Training data;Adaboost;Local binary descriptors;bit selection;convex optimization;ring-region},



