Discriminative Shared Gaussian Processes for Multiview and View-Invariant Facial Expression Recognition,

# Images of facial expressions are often captured from various views as a result of either head movements or variable camera position. Existing methods for multiview and/or view-invariant facial expression recognition typically perform classification of the observed expression using either classifiers learned separately for each view or a single classifier learned for all views. However, these approaches ignore the fact that different views of a facial expression are just different manifestations of the same facial expression. By accounting for this redundancy, we can design more effective classifiers for the target task. To this end, we propose a discriminative shared Gaussian process latent variable model (DS-GPLVM) for multiview and view-invariant classification of facial expressions from multiple views. In this model, we first learn a discriminative manifold shared by multiple views of a facial expression. Subsequently, we perform facial expression classification in the expression manifold. Finally, classification of an observed facial expression is carried out either in the view-invariant manner (using only a single view of the expression) or in the multiview manner (using multiple views of the expression). The proposed model can also be used to perform fusion of different facial features in a principled manner. We validate the proposed DS-GPLVM on both posed and spontaneously displayed facial expressions from three publicly available datasets (MultiPIE, labeled face parts in the wild, and static facial expressions in the wild). We show that this model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods for multiview and view-invariant facial expression classification, and several state-of-the-art methods for multiview learning and feature fusion.

{Gaussian processes;emotion recognition;face recognition;feature extraction;image classification;image fusion;image motion analysis;image sensors;learning (artificial intelligence);DS-GPLVM;discriminative manifold;discriminative shared Gaussian process latent variable model;feature fusion;head movements;multiPIE dataset;multiview facial expression classification;multiview facial expression recognition;multiview learning;observed expression classification;variable camera position;view-invariant facial expression classification;view-invariant facial expression recognition;Computational modeling;Correlation;Feature extraction;Gaussian processes;Kernel;Manifolds;Nickel;Gaussian Processes;View-invariant;acial expression recognition;facial expression recognition;multi-view learning;view-invariant},



