Non-Rigid Object Contour Tracking via a Novel Supervised Level Set Model,

# We present a novel approach to non-rigid objects contour tracking in this paper based on a supervised level set model (SLSM). In contrast to most existing trackers that use bounding box to specify the tracked target, the proposed method extracts the accurate contours of the target as tracking output, which achieves better description of the non-rigid objects while reduces background pollution to the target model. Moreover, conventional level set models only emphasize the regional intensity consistency and consider no priors. Differently, the curve evolution of the proposed SLSM is object-oriented and supervised by the specific knowledge of the targets we want to track. Therefore, the SLSM can ensure a more accurate convergence to the exact targets in tracking applications. In particular, we firstly construct the appearance model for the target in an online boosting manner due to its strong discriminative power between the object and the background. Then, the learnt target model is incorporated to model the probabilities of the level set contour by a Bayesian manner, leading the curve converge to the candidate region with maximum likelihood of being the target. Finally, the accurate target region qualifies the samples fed to the boosting procedure as well as the target model prepared for the next time step. We firstly describe the proposed mechanism of two-phase SLSM for single target tracking, then give its generalized multi-phase version for dealing with multi-target tracking cases. Positive decrease rate is used to adjust the learning pace over time, enabling tracking to continue under partial and total occlusion. Experimental results on a number of challenging sequences validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

{edge detection;learning (artificial intelligence);object tracking;set theory;SLSM;background pollution reduction;curve evolution;maximum likelihood;nonrigid object contour tracking;positive decrease rate;regional intensity consistency;strong discriminative power;supervised level set model;Boosting;Computational modeling;Level set;Object oriented modeling;Object tracking;Shape;Target tracking;Object tracking;appearance modeling;boosting;curve evolution;level sets},



