Micro-Expression Recognition Using Color Spaces,

# Micro-expressions are brief involuntary facial expressions that reveal genuine emotions and, thus, help detect lies. Because of their many promising applications, they have attracted the attention of researchers from various fields. Recent research reveals that two perceptual color spaces (CIELab and CIELuv) provide useful information for expression recognition. This paper is an extended version of our International Conference on Pattern Recognition paper, in which we propose a novel color space model, tensor independent color space (TICS), to help recognize micro-expressions. In this paper, we further show that CIELab and CIELuv are also helpful in recognizing micro-expressions, and we indicate why these three color spaces achieve better performance. A micro-expression color video clip is treated as a fourth-order tensor, i.e., a four-dimension array. The first two dimensions are the spatial information, the third is the temporal information, and the fourth is the color information. We transform the fourth dimension from RGB into TICS, in which the color components are as independent as possible. The combination of dynamic texture and independent color components achieves a higher accuracy than does that of RGB. In addition, we define a set of regions of interests (ROIs) based on the facial action coding system and calculated the dynamic texture histograms for each ROI. Experiments are conducted on two micro-expression databases, CASME and CASME 2, and the results show that the performances for TICS, CIELab, and CIELuv are better than those for RGB or gray.

{emotion recognition;face recognition;image colour analysis;tensors;CIELab;CIELuv;RGB;ROI;TICS;color information;dynamic texture histograms;facial action coding system;fourth-order tensor;genuine emotions;independent color components;involuntary facial expressions;micro-expression color video clip;micro-expression recognition;novel color space model;regions of interests;spatial information;temporal information;tensor independent color space;two perceptual color spaces;Color;Face;Face recognition;Feature extraction;Gold;Image color analysis;Tensile stress;Color Spaces;Facial Action Coding System;Local Binary Patterns;Micro-expression recognition;Tensor Analysis;color spaces;facial action coding system;local binary patterns;tensor analysis},



