Kernelized Saliency-Based Person Re-Identification Through Multiple Metric Learning,

# Person re-identification in a non-overlapping multi-camera scenario is an open and interesting challenge. While the task can hardly be completed by machines, we, as humans, are inherently able to sample those relevant persons' details that allow us to correctly solve the problem in a fraction of a second. Thus, knowing where a human might fixate to recognize a person is of paramount interest for re-identification. Inspired by the human gazing capabilities, we want to identify the salient regions of a person appearance to tackle the problem. Toward this objective, we introduce the following main contributions. A kernelized graph-based approach is used to detect the salient regions of a person appearance, later used as a weighting tool in the feature extraction process. The proposed person representation combines visual features either considering or not the saliency. These are then exploited in a pairwise-based multiple metric learning framework. Finally, the non-Euclidean metrics that have been separately learned for each feature are fused to re-identify a person. The proposed kernelized saliency-based person re-identification through multiple metric learning has been evaluated on four publicly available benchmark data sets to show its superior performance over the state-of-the-art approaches (e.g., it achieves a rank 1 correct recognition rate of 42.41% on the VIPeR data set).

{cameras;feature extraction;gaze tracking;graph theory;image representation;learning (artificial intelligence);feature extraction process;human gazing capability;kernelized graph-based approach;kernelized saliency-based person re-identification;nonEuclidean metrics;nonoverlapping multicamera scenario;pairwise-based multiple metric learning framework;person appearance salient region detection;person recognition;person representation;visual features;weighting tool;Cameras;Feature extraction;Image color analysis;Kernel;Measurement;Principal component analysis;Visualization;Dissimilarity Fusion;Kernelized Visual Saliency;Multiple Metric Learning;Person Re-Identification;Person re-identification;dissimilarity fusion;kernelized visual saliency;multiple metric learning},



