Combining Facial Dynamics With Appearance for Age Estimation,

# Estimating the age of a human from the captured images of his/her face is a challenging problem. In general, the existing approaches to this problem use appearance features only. In this paper, we show that in addition to appearance information, facial dynamics can be leveraged in age estimation. We propose a method to extract and use dynamic features for age estimation, using a person's smile. Our approach is tested on a large, gender-balanced database with 400 subjects, with an age range between 8 and 76. In addition, we introduce a new database on posed disgust expressions with 324 subjects in the same age range, and evaluate the reliability of the proposed approach when used with another expression. State-of-the-art appearance-based age estimation methods from the literature are implemented as baseline. We demonstrate that for each of these methods, the addition of the proposed dynamic features results in statistically significant improvement. We further propose a novel hierarchical age estimation architecture based on adaptive age grouping. We test our approach extensively, including an exploration of spontaneous versus posed smile dynamics, and gender-specific age estimation. We show that using spontaneity information reduces the mean absolute error by up to 21%, advancing the state of the art for facial age estimation.

{face recognition;feature extraction;statistical analysis;adaptive age grouping;appearance features;appearance information;appearance-based age estimation methods;captured images;dynamic features extraction;facial age estimation;facial dynamics;gender-balanced database;gender-specific age estimation;hierarchical age estimation architecture;human age estimation;mean absolute error;person smile;posed disgust expressions;posed smile dynamics;spontaneity information;spontaneous smile dynamics;Aging;Databases;Estimation;Face;Facial features;Feature extraction;Three-dimensional displays;Age estimation;Age grouping;Disgust;Expression dynamics;Smile;Spontaneity;age grouping;disgust;expression dynamics;smile;spontaneity},



