A Global/Local Affinity Graph for Image Segmentation,

# Construction of a reliable graph capturing perceptual grouping cues of an image is fundamental for graph-cut based image segmentation methods. In this paper, we propose a novel sparse global/local affinity graph over superpixels of an input image to capture both short- and long-range grouping cues, and thereby enabling perceptual grouping laws, including proximity, similarity, continuity, and to enter in action through a suitable graph-cut algorithm. Moreover, we also evaluate three major visual features, namely, color, texture, and shape, for their effectiveness in perceptual segmentation and propose a simple graph fusion scheme to implement some recent findings from psychophysics, which suggest combining these visual features with different emphases for perceptual grouping. In particular, an input image is first oversegmented into superpixels at different scales. We postulate a gravitation law based on empirical observations and divide superpixels adaptively into small-, medium-, and large-sized sets. Global grouping is achieved using medium-sized superpixels through a sparse representation of superpixels' features by solving a ℓ0-minimization problem, and thereby enabling continuity or propagation of local smoothness over long-range connections. Small- and large-sized superpixels are then used to achieve local smoothness through an adjacent graph in a given feature space, and thus implementing perceptual laws, for example, similarity and proximity. Finally, a bipartite graph is also introduced to enable propagation of grouping cues between superpixels of different scales. Extensive experiments are carried out on the Berkeley segmentation database in comparison with several state-of-the-art graph constructions. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed approach, which outperforms state-of-the-art graphs using four different objective criteria, namely, the probabilistic rand index, the variation of information, the global consistency er- or, and the boundary displacement error.

{graph theory;image colour analysis;image representation;image segmentation;image texture;probability;visual databases;visual perception;Berkeley segmentation database;bipartite graph;boundary displacement error;feature space;global consistency error;global-local affinity graph;graph constructions;graph fusion scheme;graph-cut algorithm;graph-cut based image segmentation methods;gravitation law;large-sized superpixels;long-range grouping cues;medium-sized superpixels;perceptual grouping cues;perceptual laws;perceptual segmentation;probabilistic rand index;psychophysics;short-range grouping cues;small-sized superpixels;sparse representation;superpixel features;visual features;Bipartite graph;Image color analysis;Image segmentation;Materials;Reliability;Shape;Visualization;Image segmentation;graph construction;normalized cut;sparse representation;superpixels},



