Relevance Metric Learning for Person Re-Identification by Exploiting Listwise Similarities,

# Person re-identification aims to match people across non-overlapping camera views, which is an important but challenging task in video surveillance. In order to obtain a robust metric for matching, metric learning has been introduced recently. Most existing works focus on seeking a Mahalanobis distance by employing sparse pairwise constraints, which utilize image pairs with the same person identity as positive samples, and select a small portion of those with different identities as negative samples. However, this training strategy has abandoned a large amount of discriminative information, and ignored the relative similarities. In this paper, we propose a novel relevance metric learning method with listwise constraints (RMLLCs) by adopting listwise similarities, which consist of the similarity list of each image with respect to all remaining images. By virtue of listwise similarities, RMLLC could capture all pairwise similarities, and consequently learn a more discriminative metric by enforcing the metric to conserve predefined similarity lists in a low-dimensional projection subspace. Despite the performance enhancement, RMLLC using predefined similarity lists fails to capture the relative relevance information, which is often unavailable in practice. To address this problem, we further introduce a rectification term to automatically exploit the relative similarities, and develop an efficient alternating iterative algorithm to jointly learn the optimal metric and the rectification term. Extensive experiments on four publicly available benchmarking data sets are carried out and demonstrate that the proposed method is significantly superior to the state-of-the-art approaches. The results also show that the introduction of the rectification term could further boost the performance of RMLLC.

{learning (artificial intelligence);RMLLC;listwise similarities;person re-identification;relevance metric learning;sparse pairwise constraints;video surveillance;Cameras;Learning systems;Lighting;Measurement;Probes;Robustness;Training;Person re-identification;alternating iterative optimization;list-wise similarities;metric learning},



