Toward Naturalistic 2D-to-3D Conversion,

# Natural scene statistics (NSSs) models have been developed that make it possible to impose useful perceptually relevant priors on the luminance, colors, and depth maps of natural scenes. We show that these models can be used to develop 3D content creation algorithms that can convert monocular 2D videos into statistically natural 3D-viewable videos. First, accurate depth information on key frames is obtained via human annotation. Then, both forward and backward motion vectors are estimated and compared to decide the initial depth values, and a compensation process is applied to further improve the depth initialization. Then, the luminance/chrominance and initial depth map are decomposed by a Gabor filter bank. Each subband of depth is modeled to produce a NSS prior term. The statistical color-depth priors are combined with the spatial smoothness constraint in the depth propagation target function as a prior regularizing term. The final depth map associated with each frame of the input 2D video is optimized by minimizing the target function over all subbands. In the end, stereoscopic frames are rendered from the color frames and their associated depth maps. We evaluated the quality of the generated 3D videos using both subjective and objective quality assessment methods. The experimental results obtained on various sequences show that the presented method outperforms several state-of-the-art 2D-to-3D conversion methods.

{Gabor filters;channel bank filters;image colour analysis;motion compensation;motion estimation;statistical analysis;stereo image processing;video signal processing;3D content creation algorithms;Gabor filter bank;NSS prior term;NSSs models;backward motion vector estimation;color frames;depth propagation target function;forward motion vector estimation;human annotation;key frames;luminance-chrominance;monocular 2D videos;motion compensation process;natural scene colors;natural scene depth maps;natural scene luminance;natural scene statistics model;naturalistic 2D-to-3D conversion method;objective quality assessment methods;prior regularizing term;spatial smoothness constraint;statistical color-depth priors;statistically natural 3D-viewable videos;stereoscopic frames;subjective quality assessment methods;Bayes methods;Bidirectional control;Estimation;Image color analysis;Shape;Three-dimensional displays;Videos;2D-to-3D conversion;Bayesian inference;depth propagation;natural scene statistics},



