Detecting Curvilinear Features Using Structure Tensors,

# Few published articles on curvilinear structures exist compared with works on detecting lines or corners with high accuracy. In medical ultrasound imaging, the structures that need to be detected appear as a collection of microstructures correlated along a path. In this paper, we investigated techniques that extract meaningful low-level information for curvilinear structures, using techniques based on structure tensor. We proposed a novel structure tensor enhancement inspired by bilateral filtering. We compared the proposed approach with five state-of-the-art curvilinear structure detectors. We tested the algorithms against simulated images with known ground truth and real images from three different domains (medical ultrasound, scanning electron microscope, and astronomy). For the real images, we employed experts to delineate the ground truth for each domain. Techniques borrowed from machine learning robustly assessed the performance of the methods (area under curve and cross validation). As a practical application, we used the proposed method to label a set of 5000 ultrasound images. We conclude that the proposed tensor-based approach outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in providing magnitude and orientation information for curvilinear structures. The evaluation methodology ensures that the employed feature-detection method will yield reproducible performance on new, unseen images. We published all the implemented methods as open-source software.

{feature extraction;image filtering;learning (artificial intelligence);public domain software;tensors;bilateral filtering;curvilinear feature detection method;curvilinear structure tensor enhancement;low-level information extraction;machine learning;magnitude information;medical ultrasound imaging;open source software;orientation information;state-of-the-art curvilinear structure detector;ultrasound image;Biomedical imaging;Detectors;Feature extraction;Image edge detection;Kernel;Tensile stress;Ultrasonic imaging;Curvilinear structures;feature extraction;structure tensor;ultrasound imaging},



