Random Geometric Prior Forest for Multiclass Object Segmentation,

# Recent advances in object detection have led to the development of segmentation by detection approaches that integrate top-down geometric priors for multiclass object segmentation. A key yet under-addressed issue in utilizing top-down cues for the problem of multiclass object segmentation by detection is efficiently generating robust and accurate geometric priors. In this paper, we propose a random geometric prior forest scheme to obtain object-adaptive geometric priors efficiently and robustly. In the scheme, a testing object first searches for training neighbors with similar geometries using the random geometric prior forest, and then the geometry of the testing object is reconstructed by linearly combining the geometries of its neighbors. Our scheme enjoys several favorable properties when compared with conventional methods. First, it is robust and very fast because its inference does not suffer from bad initializations, poor local minimums or complex optimization. Second, the figure/ground geometries of training samples are utilized in a multitask manner. Third, our scheme is object-adaptive but does not require the labeling of parts or poselets, and thus, it is quite easy to implement. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme, we integrate the obtained top-down geometric priors with conventional bottom-up color cues in the frame of graph cut. The proposed random geometric prior forest achieves the best segmentation results of all of the methods tested on VOC2010/2012 and is 90 times faster than the current state-of-the-art method.

{graph theory;image segmentation;object detection;optimisation;VOC2010/2012;bottom-up color cue;complex optimization;figure geometry;graph cut;ground geometry;multiclass object segmentation;object detection;object-adaptive geometric prior;poselet;random geometric prior forest scheme;testing object;top-down geometric prior;training neighbor;training sample;Geometry;Image color analysis;Image segmentation;Labeling;Testing;Training;Vegetation;Geometric prior;efficient and robust;geometric prior;image segmentation;local linear embedding;object-adaptive;random forest},



