A Pipeline for the Generation of Realistic 3D Synthetic Echocardiographic Sequences: Methodology and Open-Access Database,

# Quantification of cardiac deformation and strain with 3D ultrasound takes considerable research efforts. Nevertheless, a widespread use of these techniques in clinical practice is still held back due to the lack of a solid verification process to quantify and compare performance. In this context, the use of fully synthetic sequences has become an established tool for initial in silico evaluation. Nevertheless, the realism of existing simulation techniques is still too limited to represent reliable benchmarking data. Moreover, the fact that different centers typically make use of in-house developed simulation pipelines makes a fair comparison difficult. In this context, this paper introduces a novel pipeline for the generation of synthetic 3D cardiac ultrasound image sequences. State-of-the art solutions in the fields of electromechanical modeling and ultrasound simulation are combined within an original framework that exploits a real ultrasound recording to learn and simulate realistic speckle textures. The simulated images show typical artifacts that make motion tracking in ultrasound challenging. The ground-truth displacement field is available voxelwise and is fully controlled by the electromechanical model. By progressively modifying mechanical and ultrasound parameters, the sensitivity of 3D strain algorithms to pathology and image properties can be evaluated. The proposed pipeline is used to generate an initial library of 8 sequences including healthy and pathological cases, which is made freely accessible to the research community via our project web-page.

{echocardiography;image sequences;image texture;medical image processing;motion estimation;object tracking;physiological models;speckle;3D strain algorithms;benchmarking data;cardiac deformation;electromechanical modeling;fully synthetic sequences;ground-truth displacement field;image properties;in-house developed simulation pipelines;initial in silico evaluation;initial library;mechanical parameters;motion tracking;open-access database;pathology;project web-page;real ultrasound recording;realistic 3D synthetic echocardiographic sequences;realistic speckle textures;solid verification process;synthetic 3D cardiac ultrasound image sequences;ultrasound parameters;ultrasound simulation;voxelwise;Benchmark testing;Geometry;Heart;Pipelines;Speckle;Three-dimensional displays;Ultrasonic imaging;3D echocardiography;cardiac strain;electromechanical model;evaluation;motion estimation;synthetic sequences;ultrasound simulation},



