Real-Time Task Recognition in Cataract Surgery Videos Using Adaptive Spatiotemporal Polynomials,

# This paper introduces a new algorithm for recognizing surgical tasks in real-time in a video stream. The goal is to communicate information to the surgeon in due time during a video-monitored surgery. The proposed algorithm is applied to cataract surgery, which is the most common eye surgery. To compensate for eye motion and zoom level variations, cataract surgery videos are first normalized. Then, the motion content of short video subsequences is characterized with spatiotemporal polynomials: a multiscale motion characterization based on adaptive spatiotemporal polynomials is presented. The proposed solution is particularly suited to characterize deformable moving objects with fuzzy borders, which are typically found in surgical videos. Given a target surgical task, the system is trained to identify which spatiotemporal polynomials are usually extracted from videos when and only when this task is being performed. These key spatiotemporal polynomials are then searched in new videos to recognize the target surgical task. For improved performances, the system jointly adapts the spatiotemporal polynomial basis and identifies the key spatiotemporal polynomials using the multiple-instance learning paradigm. The proposed system runs in real-time and outperforms the previous solution from our group, both for surgical task recognition ( Az = 0.851 on average, as opposed to Az = 0.794 previously) and for the joint segmentation and recognition of surgical tasks ( Az = 0.856 on average, as opposed to Az = 0.832 previously).

{biomedical optical imaging;eye;polynomials;surgery;video streaming;adaptive spatiotemporal polynomial;cataract surgery video;eye motion variation;eye surgery;eye zoom level variation;joint segmentation;motion characterization;multiple-instance learning paradigm;real-time task recognition;short video subsequence motion content;surgical task recognition;video stream;video-monitored surgery;Motion segmentation;Polynomials;Real-time systems;Spatiotemporal phenomena;Surgery;Vectors;Videos;Cataract surgery;multiple-instance learning;real-time task recognition;spatiotemporal polynomials},



