Graph-Based Airway Tree Reconstruction From Chest CT Scans: Evaluation of Different Features on Five Cohorts,

# We present a graph-based framework for airway tree reconstruction from computerized tomography (CT) scans and evaluate the performance of different feature categories and their combinations on five lung cohorts. The approach consists of two main processing steps. First, potential airway branch and connection candidates are identified and represented by a graph structure with weighted nodes and edges, respectively. Second, an optimization algorithm is utilized for generating an airway detection result by selecting a subset of airway branches and connections based on graph weights derived from image features. The performance of the algorithm with different feature categories and their combinations was assessed on a set of 50 lung CT scans from five different cohorts, including normal and diseased lungs. Results show trade-offs between feature categories/combinations in terms of correctly (true positive) and incorrectly (false positive) identified airways. Also, the performance of features in dependence of lung cohort was analyzed. Across all cohorts, a good trade-off with high true positive rate (TPR) and low false positive rate (FPR) was achieved by a combination of gray-value, local shape, and structural features. This combination enabled extracting 91.80% of reference airways (TPR) in combination with a low FPR of 1.00%. In addition, this variant was evaluated on the public EXACT'09 test set, and a comparison with other airway detection approaches is provided. One of the main advantages of the presented method is that it is robust against local disturbances/artifacts or other ambiguities that are frequently occurring in lung CT scans.

{computerised tomography;diseases;feature extraction;graphs;image reconstruction;lung;medical image processing;optimisation;pneumodynamics;chest CT scans;computerized tomography;diseased lungs;feature categories-combinations;feature evaluation;graph structure;graph-based airway tree reconstruction;gray-value combination;image features;local disturbances-artifacts;lung cohorts;optimization algorithm;public EXACT'09 test set;weighted edges;weighted nodes;Cavity resonators;Computed tomography;Diseases;Image reconstruction;Image segmentation;Lungs;Optimization;Airway detection;X-ray computed tomography;graph-based optimization},



