A New Total Body Scanning System for Automatic Change Detection in Multiple Pigmented Skin Lesions,

# The detection of newly appearing and changing pigmented skin lesions (PSLs) is essential for timely diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma. Total body skin examination (TBSE) procedures, currently practiced for this purpose, can be extremely time-consuming for patients with numerous lesions. In addition, these procedures are prone to subjectivity when selecting PSLs for baseline image comparison, increasing the risk of missing a developing cancer. To address this issue, we propose a new photogrammetry-based total body scanning system allowing for skin surface image acquisition using cross-polarized light. Equipped with 21 high-resolution cameras and a turntable, this scanner automatically acquires a set of overlapping images, covering 85%-90% of the patient's skin surface. These images are used for the automated mapping of PSLs and their change estimation between explorations. The maps produced relate images of individual lesions with their locations on the patient's body, solving the body-to-image and image-to-image correspondence problem in TBSEs. Currently, the scanner is limited to patients with sparse body hair and, for a complete skin examination, the scalp, palms, soles and inner arms should be photographed manually. The initial tests of the scanner showed that it can be successfully applied for automated mapping and temporal monitoring of multiple lesions: PSLs relevant for follow-up were repeatedly mapped in several explorations. Moreover, during the baseline image comparison, all lesions with artificially induced changes were correctly identified as “evolved.”

{biomedical optical imaging;cancer;image resolution;image sensors;light polarisation;medical image processing;patient monitoring;photogrammetry;pigments;skin;tumours;automated mapping;automatic change detection;baseline image comparison;body hair;body-to-image correspondence problem;cancer;complete skin examination;cross-polarized light;cutaneous melanoma;high-resolution cameras;image-to-image correspondence problem;inner arms;multiple pigmented skin lesions;overlapping images;palms;patient body locations;patient skin surface;photogrammetry-based total body scanning system;scalp;skin surface image acquisition;soles;temporal monitoring;timely diagnosis;total body skin examination procedures;Calibration;Cameras;Image color analysis;Lesions;Lighting;Malignant tumors;Skin;Change detection;mapping;melanoma;photogrammetry;pigmented skin lesions;scanner},



