Energy Calibration of the Pixels of Spectral X-ray Detectors,

# The energy information acquired using spectral X-ray detectors allows noninvasive identification and characterization of chemical components of a material. To achieve this, it is important that the energy response of the detector is calibrated. The established techniques for energy calibration are not practical for routine use in pre-clinical or clinical research environment. This is due to the requirements of using monochromatic radiation sources such as synchrotron, radio-isotopes, and prohibitively long time needed to set up the equipment and make measurements. To address these limitations, we have developed an automated technique for calibrating the energy response of the pixels in a spectral X-ray detector that runs with minimal user intervention. This technique uses the X-ray tube voltage (kVp) as a reference energy, which is stepped through an energy range of interest. This technique locates the energy threshold where a pixel transitions from not-counting (off) to counting (on). Similarly, we have developed a technique for calibrating the energy response of individual pixels using X-ray fluorescence generated by metallic targets directly irradiated with polychromatic X-rays, and additionally γ-rays from 241Am. This technique was used to measure the energy response of individual pixels in CdTe-Medipix3RX by characterizing noise performance, threshold dispersion, gain variation and spectral resolution. The comparison of these two techniques shows the energy difference of 1 keV at 59.5 keV which is less than the spectral resolution of the detector (full-width at half-maximum of 8 keV at 59.5 keV). Both techniques can be used as quality control tools in a pre-clinical multi-energy CT scanner using spectral X-ray detectors.

{X-ray detection;X-ray tubes;biomedical equipment;calibration;computerised tomography;fluorescence;γ-rays;CdTe-Medipix3RX;X-ray fluorescence;X-ray tube voltage;chemical components;energy calibration;energy information;energy response;full-width-at-half-maximum;gain variation;metallic targets;minimal user intervention;monochromatic radiation sources;noise performance;pixel transitions;polychromatic X-rays;preclinical multienergy CT scanner;preclinical research environment;quality control tools;radioisotopes;spectral X-ray detectors;spectral resolution;synchrotron;threshold dispersion;Calibration;Detectors;Electron tubes;Energy measurement;Noise;Photonics;X-ray detectors;Energy calibration;Medipix;X-ray detector;X-ray fluorescence;spectral resolution},



