Biomechanically Constrained Surface Registration: Application to MR-TRUS Fusion for Prostate Interventions,

# In surface-based registration for image-guided interventions, the presence of missing data can be a significant issue. This often arises with real-time imaging modalities such as ultrasound, where poor contrast can make tissue boundaries difficult to distinguish from surrounding tissue. Missing data poses two challenges: ambiguity in establishing correspondences; and extrapolation of the deformation field to those missing regions. To address these, we present a novel non-rigid registration method. For establishing correspondences, we use a probabilistic framework based on a Gaussian mixture model (GMM) that treats one surface as a potentially partial observation. To extrapolate and constrain the deformation field, we incorporate biomechanical prior knowledge in the form of a finite element model (FEM). We validate the algorithm, referred to as GMM-FEM, in the context of prostate interventions. Our method leads to a significant reduction in target registration error (TRE) compared to similar state-of-the-art registration algorithms in the case of missing data up to 30%, with a mean TRE of 2.6 mm. The method also performs well when full segmentations are available, leading to TREs that are comparable to or better than other surface-based techniques. We also analyze robustness of our approach, showing that GMM-FEM is a practical and reliable solution for surface-based registration.

{Gaussian processes;biological tissues;biomechanics;biomedical MRI;biomedical ultrasonics;deformation;extrapolation;finite element analysis;image registration;image segmentation;medical image processing;mixture models;probability;ultrasonic imaging;GMM-FEM;Gaussian mixture model;MR-TRUS fusion;biomechanical prior knowledge;biomechanically constrained surface registration;deformation field;extrapolation;finite element model;image-guided interventions;missing data;nonrigid registration method;probabilistic framework;prostate interventions;real-time imaging modality;reliable solution;robustness;segmentations;state-of-the-art registration algorithms;surface-based techniques;target registration error;tissue boundaries;Biomechanics;Finite element analysis;Image segmentation;Iterative closest point algorithm;Magnetic resonance imaging;Mathematical model;Ultrasonic imaging;Finite element model;Gaussian mixture model;prostate;surface registration;transrectal ultrasound},



