Learning Structured Models for Segmentation of 2-D and 3-D Imagery,

# Efficient and accurate segmentation of cellular structures in microscopic data is an essential task in medical imaging. Many state-of-the-art approaches to image segmentation use structured models whose parameters must be carefully chosen for optimal performance. A popular choice is to learn them using a large-margin framework and more specifically structured support vector machines (SSVM). Although SSVMs are appealing, they suffer from certain limitations. First, they are restricted in practice to linear kernels because the more powerful nonlinear kernels cause the learning to become prohibitively expensive. Second, they require iteratively finding the most violated constraints, which is often intractable for the loopy graphical models used in image segmentation. This requires approximation that can lead to reduced quality of learning. In this paper, we propose three novel techniques to overcome these limitations. We first introduce a method to “kernelize” the features so that a linear SSVM framework can leverage the power of nonlinear kernels without incurring much additional computational cost. Moreover, we employ a working set of constraints to increase the reliability of approximate subgradient methods and introduce a new way to select a suitable step size at each iteration. We demonstrate the strength of our approach on both 2-D and 3-D electron microscopic (EM) image data and show consistent performance improvement over state-of-the-art approaches.

{biological tissues;cellular biophysics;electron microscopy;image segmentation;learning (artificial intelligence);medical image processing;neurophysiology;support vector machines;2D electron microscopic image data;2D imagery segmentation;3D electron microscopic image data;3D imagery segmentation;cellular structures;large-margin framework;learning structured models;linear SSVM framework;linear kernels;loopy graphical models;microscopic data;neural tissue;nonlinear kernels;optimal performance;specifically structured support vector machines;Approximation methods;Fasteners;Image segmentation;Kernel;Labeling;Support vector machines;Training;Computer vision;electron microscopy;image processing;image segmentation;kernel methods;mitochondria;segmentation;statistical machine learning;structured prediction;superpixels;supervoxels},



