Multi-Dimensional Complete Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition With Adaptive Noise Applied to Laser Speckle Contrast Images,

# Laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI) is a noninvasive full-field optical technique which allows analyzing the dynamics of microvascular blood flow. LSCI has attracted attention because it is able to image blood flow in different kinds of tissue with high spatial and temporal resolutions. Additionally, it is simple and necessitates low-cost devices. However, the physiological information that can be extracted directly from the images is not completely determined yet. In this work, a novel multi-dimensional complete ensemble empirical mode decomposition with adaptive noise (MCEEMDAN) is introduced and applied in LSCI data recorded in three physiological conditions (rest, vascular occlusion and post-occlusive reactive hyperaemia). MCEEMDAN relies on the improved complete ensemble empirical mode decomposition with adaptive noise (CEEMDAN) and our algorithm is specifically designed to analyze multi-dimensional data (such as images). Over the recent multi-dimensional ensemble empirical mode decomposition (MEEMD), MCEEMDAN has the advantage of leading to an exact reconstruction of the original data. The results show that MCEEMDAN leads to intrinsic mode functions and residue that reveal hidden patterns in LSCI data. Moreover, these patterns differ with physiological states. MCEEMDAN appears as a promising way to extract features in LSCI data for an improvement of the image understanding.

{biomedical optical imaging;blood flow measurement;blood vessels;laser applications in medicine;medical image processing;speckle;LSCI;MCEEMDAN;adaptive noise;blood flow imaging;empirical mode decomposition;high spatial resolution imaging;high temporal resolution imaging;intrinsic mode functions;laser speckle contrast images;microvascular blood flow dynamics;multidimensional complete ensemble EMD;noninvasive full field optical technique;physiological information extraction;post occlusive reactive hyperaemia conditions;rest conditions;vascular occlusion conditions;Algorithm design and analysis;Empirical mode decomposition;Image reconstruction;Lasers;Speckle;White noise;Biomedical image processing;empirical mode decomposition;laser speckle contrast imaging},



